# What Lies Ahead

This curriculum will help you hone your skills so that when you re-encounter
Mod 1 you'll have process on your side and confidence to take your spot as a
leader, not merely a _repeater_.

## Section 1: Flatiron Process

We'll teach you a documented, successful, process for you to integrate into
your development practice.

While you'll surely add your own style to it, it serves as a common basis
that's useful for helping you attack problems with mindfulness as well as
communicate with other developers about their process and / or help you need
with your own.

Think of it like jazz music: while Miles Davis and John Coltrane bent the rules
of centuries of musical tradition, they both knew how to count 4/4 time and
play a D-minor scale. This practice serves as a basis. We know you'll grow
beyond it at some point, but as a grounding it's an essential frame of
reference.

## Section 2: Ruby Basics Guided by the Flatiron Process

You'll next see a variety of problems that involve the core tools of a any
developer's toolbox: tools that process data and change the way it appears.
These are your Ruby `Enumerables`, `Hash`es, and `Array`s. As you tackle the
exercises here, make sure you're practicing your process. You need to be so
comfortable with these tools that they're near unconscious. Having these at
your side will leave your brain free to have enough resources to contemplate
"solving the problem" versus "how do I write that data transformation?"

## Section 3: Reading and Writing as a Programmer

In the last section we're going to give you lots of problems for you to
continue practicing your ever-better process with. We'll spend some time
thinking about "OK, we got the code working, but how do we keep it under
control so that it doesn't swallow us later?" We'll think about how Object
Orientation (OO) helps us. We'll think about what a "good method" looks like.
We'll think about what a "good class" looks like. We'll work to build a sense
of taste around "OK, it works, but it's not yet quite **_right_**."

## Conclusion

This module is a chance for a renaissance: a rebirth. Embrace seeing these
challenges with a new mindset and new eyes. We're confident that with process
and practice on your side, your next Mod1 will feel like a fun romp!
